---
layout: post
title: ! 'Issue #17'
author: ceberhardt
published: false
thumbnail: 
summary: 
---

## [Remote Labor Index: Measuring AI Automation of Remote Work](https://www.remotelabor.ai/)

<small>REMOTELABOR.AI</small>

The Remote Labor Index indicates that AI is a long way from replacing human workers - with 2.5% task completion rate.

Most benchmarks are based on small tasks or academic-style tests that are not a very good reflection of our day-to-day work. Recently we've seen researchers try to create more representative tests, including OpenAIs GDPval, which used a group of experts to create representative tasks across a range of professions.

This paper introduces the Remote Labor Index, similar to SWE-Bench (which focusses specifically on software engineering), it is built from a collection of real-world tasks. In this case, 240 projects from upwork, which had a human completion time of ~13 hours. This are sizeable, highly involved tasks, with clear economic value.

The result? The leading AI models were able successfully complete just 2.5% of tasks to a sufficient level of quality.

While this might sound like a very poor result, personally I am deeply impressed that general purpose AI models are able to successfully complete highly-involved tasks, with genuine business value (worth 100s of dollars) at all. This was impossible just a year or two ago.

Furthermore, the AI models completed a far higher percentage of tasks, but the quality was deemed insufficient.

We are now at a point where general purpose AI models are able to complete a small percentage of randomly selected, economically valuable tasks, across a range of domains.

I'm impressed.