---
layout: post
title: ! 'Issue #9'
author: ceberhardt
published: false
---

## [Claude Code Framework Wars](https://shmck.substack.com/p/claude-code-framework-wars)

<small>SUBSTACK.COM</small>

... on the the myriad ways to use AI agents

The industry direction of travel is moving away from AI augmenting our existing engineering practices, to the agentic model, where tools like Claude Code have autonomy, with the human operator taking on the higher-level roles of project manager, designer, and software architect.

However, these AI agents are not effective 'out of the box'. This blog post argues that you should treat these tools as a framework, a set of rules, guidance, and ultimately choices which you need to make.

This blog post does a really good job of outlining some of the framework decisions you need to make, and how some well-known agentic frameworks reflect these different choices.

If you are jumping into agentic software development, this is a worth a read. 

## [Writing Code Is Easy. Reading It Isn’t.](https://idiallo.com/blog/writing-code-is-easy-reading-is-hard)

<small>IDIALLO.COM</small>

When reviewing code, you don't just read it for the sake of a line-by-line understanding, you read it to build a mental model of the software system (or at least part of it). To do this properly takes time. I don't think this is new to any of us, however, in an LLM-powered world, things are different.

As the author states:

> "When an LLM can produce an infinite amount of code or text, it tempts us to skip the reading."

and

> "This is why the real bottleneck in software development isn’t writing, it’s understanding."

I'm not entirely sure I agree with this statement. However, I do very much believe that if we can create an infinite amount of code, quickly, with minimal cost, we will find a great many bottlenecks elsewhere in the system. Our own understanding of what the LLM has created is certainly one of them.