---
layout: post
title: ! 'Issue #43'
author: ceberhardt
published: false
thumbnail:
summary:
---

## [Podcast: Building Pi, and what makes self-modifying software so fascinating](https://newsletter.pragmaticengineer.com/p/building-pi-and-what-makes-self-modifying)

<small>PRAGMATICENGINEER.COM</small>

This is a really enjoyable podcast; a conversation between Gergely (The Pragmatic Engineer), Mario Zechner the creator of Pi and Armin Ronacher the creator of Flask (and long-time user of Pi) where they chat about the broad impact that AI is having on the software industry. I would consider Mario and Armin to be cautious, yet optimistic in their views, and as a result, have a lot of wisdom to share. I found myself nodding along to their conversation and making quite a few notes.

A key theme of their conversation was that while agents increase output, they also increase complexity (if left un-checked), partly because agent's "don't feel pain". Not physical pain of course, but the pain developers experience when a codebase gets out-of-hand. The growing tech-debt burden. An experienced engineer makes decisions that try to minimise long-term pain, or at least strike the right balance between shipping features and future pain.

They also note that an important skill that any senior engineer learns is when to say "no", again, something no AI agent will do. Which also touches the related topic of learning. Agents don't learn, or at least, don't acquire knowledge and experience in the same way that a human being does.

I really liked this conversation, it was balanced and measured, and a good antidote to the current “move faster with armies of agents” mindset. 
