---
layout: post
title: ! 'Issue #30'
author: ceberhardt
published: false
thumbnail: 
summary: 
---

## [An interview with Peter Steinberger, creator of Clawdbot](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8lF7HmQ_RgY)

<small>YOUTUBE.COM</small>

Peter is a genuine rock-star developer, who, as the creator of Clawdbot (recently renamed to OpenClaw) is enjoying quite a bit of the limelight at the moment. In this recent conversation between Gergely (of The Pragmatic Engineer fame) they do of course discuss Peter's latest project, which is a runaway success. But more interestingly (to me at least) they spend a lot of time talking about the impact of AI on software development.

They discuss the changing role of the software engineer, steering architecture rather than writing code, and whether you should review every single line of code. Peter is an exceptional engineer, but also has a product-first mindset - much of his thinking is shaped around the desire to ship product and delight users.

Peter has an interesting workflow for agentic coding, rather than investing time in writing detailed specifications (as advocated by spec-driven development, SDD), he has a conversation with the Codex agent, collaboratively fleshing out the implementation. He also intentionally under-prompts to help discover unexpected solutions. I much prefer this approach over SDD. He's not keen on BMAD, Gas Town or SpecKit either.

One of the key concepts we repeatedly cites is that of 'closing the loop', giving the AI model the ability to evaluate its own work, via the compiler, unit tests, automation tests (or any other means possible). This significantly improves its ability to iterate on a problem and take on much more sizeable and challenging tasks.

The way Peter approaches software development, and collaborating with others, has fundamentally changed. There is a lot to learn from this conversation.

