---
layout: post
title: ! 'Issue #34'
author: ceberhardt
published: false
thumbnail: 
summary: 
---

## [MCP is dead. Long live the CLI](https://ejholmes.github.io/2026/02/28/mcp-is-dead-long-live-the-cli.html)

<small>GITHUB.IO</small>

_As an aside, why do so many articles these days have to include such sensationalised titles? A more meaningful title for this post would be "When does MCP make sense vs CLI?"_

Model Context Protocol (MCP) was released a couple of years ago as a standard mechanism for extending LLMs through the use of tools. In other words, it gives the model the ability to call out to an external service (e.g. execute a Google search or review internal backlog tickets).

I must admit, I've always had my doubts about MCP, ever since reading this [fantastic blog post from the Wolfram team](https://writings.stephenwolfram.com/2023/03/chatgpt-gets-its-wolfram-superpowers/) about how they integrated their content and tools with ChatGPT. One of the things I found most notable is how easy it was to integrate with he Wolfram|Alpha API, which has a natural language interface. This allows ChatGPT to 'talk' to Wolfram in a highly expressive way, without the need for formal specification.

MCP feels like we are applying a model from the past, where computers talk to each other via rigid interfaces, when there is now the opportunity to look at how they might communicate in the future, through more expressive natural language interfaces.

This blog post makes a similar argument, that LLMs don’t need a special protocol. In this instance, they outline how LLMs are tremendously good at using command line tools (CLIs), as Claude Code has demonstrated.


