---
layout: post
title: ! 'Issue #39'
author: ceberhardt
published: false
thumbnail:
summary:
---

## [Claude Code is unusable for complex engineering tasks with Feb updates](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-code/issues/42796)

<small>GITHUB.COM</small>

In this detailed issue, raised on the Claude Code Github repository, a user describes their feeling that Claude has degraded over the past months to the point of being unusable. This was based on detailed analysis of their Claude usage logs. They also draw attention to a change in Claude release in February, where "thinking" content is no longer surfaced.

Comments from other users on this issue were mixed, but the prevailing sentiment does seem to be supportive of the regression claims, adding anecdotal evidence that it "feels dumber". Someone from Anthropic [did chime in](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-code/issues/42796#issuecomment-4194007103), noting that the change in February just hides thinking, rather than suppressing it. In the meantime they have also introduced adaptive thinking and changed the default thinking effort.

This issue highlights a very tricky problem for both the tool-vendors and model labs, and the end users.

When a model "thinks", via inference time compute, this is both expensive and slow. The models and tools will find a 'sweet spot' in their default settings that they think works well for most use cases, however, this is always going to be a compromise. It is also why concepts like "adaptive thinking", where the model decides how long to think, have emerged.

As an end user, you have to be comfortable with an AI system whose behaviours are hard to define, and change without notice. Whatever you are building on top of these models of tools (whether processes or your own technology), keep them lightweight as they will almost certainly have to change over time. 

## [Is AI taking the fun out of software development?](https://blog.scottlogic.com/2026/04/01/beyond-the-hype-is-ai-taking-fun-out-of-software-development.html)

<small>SCOTTLOGIC.COM</small>

And finally, please forgive a bit of self-promotion! I recently recorded a podcast with a couple of my colleagues talking about the more human impact of AI on software development. What does this mean for our jobs? our skills? these are certainly going to change in many ways - but a growing concern I hear from many experienced developers is that the software engineering job of the future, which takes them further away from the code, may not be something that really excites them. 

Is AI taking the fun out of software development?
