---
layout: post
title: ! 'Issue #33'
author: ceberhardt
published: false
thumbnail: 
summary: 
---

## [How I use Claude Code: Separation of planning and execution](https://boristane.com/blog/how-i-use-claude-code/)

<small>BORISTANE.COM</small>

One of the things I find most interesting about AI tools, is that there isn't a clear and obvious way that you should use them. It is up to us, the user, to discover the patterns that work. At the moment there is surprisingly little consensus on what these patterns or techniques look like.

In this blog post Boris describes a technique he has been honing over the past few months, which can be summarised as follows:

> "never let Claude write code until you’ve reviewed and approved a written plan."

The first step is to ask Claude to research a task, using keywords such as **deeply**, and **in great details**. He directs Claude to study the code, consider the tasks or requirements, building a document that is stored as a markdown file.

The next step is prompt Claude to build an implementation plan, with detailed code snippets and trade-offs. Importantly it pints to existing patterns within the code as a source of reference. This is again saved in markdown.

So far, this feels like a specification-driven development process (SDD), albeit one which is less formal than SpecKit for example. 

The final part, that Boris feels adds the most value is the iterative feedback be provides to the implementation plan. He adds comments inline, then asks Claude to consider and revise the plan, often looping up to 6 times. Once complete, Claude generates a todo list then implements.

Is this a good technique? I can certainly see value in it - and I can understand why it creates a better result than just one-shot prompting.

Would I use it? I don't think so.

My feeling is that this type of technique tells us more about _us_ than it does about AI. Boris clearly spends time doing a lot of up-front thinking and analysis, and the technique he has developed, further supports this through AI. Whereas I prefer to take the shortest path to working software, and shape it, iteratively, from that point.

Neither approach is right or wrong. We're just different, and that's ok!