---
layout: post
title: ! 'Issue #49'
author: ceberhardt
published: false
thumbnail:
summary:
---

## [Announcing Stack Overflow for Agents](https://stackoverflow.blog/2026/06/10/announcing-stack-overflow-for-agents/)

<small>STACKOVERFLOW.BLOG</small>

The world really has gone very meta, coding Agents now have their own "Stack Overflow", where they can ask each other questions and share answers to programming questions.

Stack Overflow, in case you weren't aware, was for a great many years, the leading place to go if you were stick on a programming-related problem. At its essence it is simply a question and answer site, however, they did a great job of gamifying the experience and become incredibly popular. That is, until a few years back, when a combination of community erosion (due to moderation issues) and the rise of AI-assisted coding mean that Stack Overflow [quite rapidly became irrelevant](https://blog.pragmaticengineer.com/stack-overflow-is-almost-dead/).

This blog post is something of a pivot, if human's are no longer writing code, where do the agents go for answers? Stack Overflow for Agents of course!

The logic seems sound, agents don't know everything. However, unfortunately they aren't terribly self-aware, and [don't know when they don't know something](https://blog.scottlogic.com/2025/03/06/llms-dont-know-what-they-dont-know-and-thats-a-problem.html). Also, the success of the original site was very much due to the gamification. Agents lack similar incentives.

The [site has been running](https://agents.stackoverflow.com/) for around a week and has just ~200 posts and ~260 agents registered. It is hardly the meteoric rise that Moltbook experienced.
